To demonstrate the new module functionality inside of Java 9,
I'm going to create a simple project to illustrate
this just printing out a Hello World,
and I want to do this to show you how modules work because it will change how
you work with Spring 5's code and how you import libraries in.
I'm going to start out by right-clicking and creating a New,
Java Project, and I'm going to call this the HelloWorldModule project,
click Next.
And inside of here, I'm going to create a new source folder and call this com.
hello, and we'll click Finish.
And then I'm going to right-click on that src folder and remove
that from the build path just to keep those clean,
and I'll click Finish.
Inside of here, I'm going to right-click and create a new file.
And notice how I specifically chose file and not a class.
And I'm doing this just because the IDEs aren't quite caught up with the
new module packaging and how that all comes together,
so they get a little bit confused when you call this a Java file.
I'm going to call this module-info.
java, and make sure you have the com.
hello folder selected like I do up above, and we'll click Finish.
And then inside of here,
you're going to use a new key word that you maybe haven't used before of module.
I'm going to type com.
hello and give it an open/close curly brace.
I'm going to leave it like this for now because we're going to go add
the code that this exports here in just a second.
So let's right-click on our com.
hello source folder again and say New, Package,
and we'll create a package called com.
hello.
Those don't have to be named the same.
I just did for the sake of this example.
And then I want to right-click on that package and create a new class.
And the class is going to be HelloWorld, and we'll click Finish.
And inside of here, really simple,
we're just going to add a method that returns a string,
so we'll say public String sayHelloWorld.
And this is just going to simply return that string of Hello World.
And we'll close that off and save it.
Now we want to go back to our module info and say that this exports com.
hello, that package that we just created.
Now we have our module created.
Let's go create a client project that will utilize this.
So I'm going to come back over here and right- click and say New,
Java Project again.
And this one, I'm going to do the HelloWorldClient and click Finish.
And inside of our client, I want to do very similar things.
I want to start off and right-click and say New,
Source Folder,
and I could've done this at the time of creating the project or afterwards.
The source folder, we're going to say, is com.
hello.
client.
The other one we just did as com.
hello.
And we'll click Finish.
And then we want to create another file in here as well,
so we'll say New, File, and we'll do module-info.
java.
I'm going to leave this empty for now on purpose to show you
something that we are going to utilize here in a minute.
So let's right-click on that source folder that we just
created and create a new package,
and I do agree this is probably an overly complex example for what
we're trying to illustrate with a HelloWorld,
but it shows you how the modules work together.
In the package, we're going to just say it's com.
hello.
client, and we'll say Finish.
Right-click on our new package and say New, Class.
And I'm going to select the public static void main create method down there.
And we're going to call this class the HellowWorldClient, and we'll say Finish.
Now it's got our main method generated for us.
Let's replace the auto generated comment that's in there.
And we're going to try to import our HelloWorld application.
So I can say HelloWorld helloWorld = new HelloWorld.
And you're going to notice that we already have
compilation errors because it cannot find that.
This is how we fix that.
I'm going to right-click on our project and say Build Path,
Configure Build Path.
And you'll notice underneath our project section, there is a Modulepath.
I'm going to select Modulepath and click Add and add the HellowWorldModule.
And click OK and Apply and Close.
Now we're not done yet.
The other thing that we need to do is go into that module-info.
java file that we created in our client and add module com.
hello.
client and say that it requires com.
hello and save that.
Now we can come over here into our Java code and import our
HelloWorld class and do a simple System.
out.
println that will utilized that helloWorld.
sayHello method.
Now when we run this, I can just right-click and say Run As, Java Application.
You'll see that it prints out the Hello World down below.
So what did this buy us?
Well a couple of things.
We can have differing modules inside of an application
and just share those specific pieces, so simple little bundles.
Rather than trying to break things up logically by jars,
we can modularize it and have things span those particular jars.
And to do so,
really what we did is we creating two separate projects with our
HelloWorld class and our HelloWorldClient,
and we created a module-info per project.
We had our module-info in our HelloWorld module that exports com.
hello and our module info in our client that requires com.
hello.
And then that was it.
We wrote our simple client that utilized that code and dumped it out.
Now why is this important to you?
Because inside of Spring 5,
everything's been modularized and how and what you might
want to import will now be smaller,
and you can utilize the module info rather than importing this gigantic jar that may or may not have the pieces that you need in there.